README
======

This repository contains the scripts from [paper].
If you use this repository, or ideas from it, please both cite the paper in your
work and include the link to this repository.

It is designed to work by adding GenBank files into the data/original_gb
directory. You will also need to add a Fasta file with of Incompatibility Group
sequences into the directory data/original_incompatibility_groups with the name
incompatibility.fasta. The Fasta file should work as long as it is correctly
formatted. Single- or multi-line sequence entires are fine. No blank lines. The
GenBank files should be concatenations of one or more GenBank files. As some
accessions will fit into more than one grouping, it is okay for the GenBank
record for a single accession to occur in more than one file. That record must,
however, be the same in each case if you want things to work right.

All scripts are designed to be run from the main directory (i.e., the parent
directory of data and scripts). 

If you wish to have different key terms, you will need to edit the regular
expressions found in scripts/identifyPlasmidMatches.py. Depending on what you
are searching for, you may need a different search heirarchy altogether.
Presently, Beta-lactamase Special is a subset of of Beta-lactamase. It is, in
turn, a subset of Antimicrobial Resistance. Thus, a find in Beta-lactamase
Special will incrememnt the count for itself and its parents. Similarly, DNA
Maintenance Special is a subset of DNA Maintenance. Otherwise, the search
strategy is as follows:
	If the CDS search region does not match an ignored term, search it for
	each of the following term groupings, stopping as soon as a match is
	identified:

		-Antimicrobial Resistance (with its subgroups)
		-Toxin/Antitoxin System
		-DNA Maintenance (with its subgroup)
		-Mobile Genetic Elements
		-Hypothetical Genes
	
	If no match is found, assign it to an "Other" category.

If you wish to change the percent identity or coverage cutoffs for assigning
incompatibility groups, you may change the appropriate AWK and Python scripts.

You will need to alter the path to the NCBI BLAST+ Suite in scripts/blast.sh
and scripts/01-makeIncompatibilityBlastDB.sh.

GNU sed is used in some scripts. If your system used BSD sed by default, you'll
need to either make GNU sed your default or alter the scripts to use GNU sed.

